so have you ever wondered how many atoms
there are in your body and why do your
veins look blue instead of red
well let's poke around the human body
and see what's going on goosebumps are
an evolutionary reflex left over from
our ancestors the release of adrenaline
made their hair stand up and they look
scarier to approaching predators the
beating sound your heart makes is the
clap of valve leaflets opening and
closing your heart doesn't replicate
itself unless you have an injury your
corneas are the only parts of your body
that don't get blood they get oxygen
directly through the air the human brain
has 100 billion neurons give or take the
vessels in your body are long enough to
circle the Earth twice or more the idea
that we use only 10% of our brains is a
myth at any given time you use almost
100% otherwise you wouldn't be able to
perform simple tasks like drink a cup of
coffee when ancient Romans flex their
biceps they thought their muscles look
like mice this way the word muscle
translates as little mouse and Latin
your left lung is smaller than the right
one because it shares space with your
heart experts used to think that we can
only distinguish 10,000 smells in fact a
recent study found human beings can
recognize one trillion smells more than
70% of your brain consists of water and
it needs 20 % of your body's oxygen
supply
there are around 700 different species
of bacteria in your mouth over 6 billion
of them live there your skin is your
largest organ it can cover the surface
area of two bath towels
for every pound of fat you gain you
generate one mile of new blood vessels
to supply oxygen and nutrients to your
body your stomach produces a new lining
every six days to avoid digesting itself
the membranes blood vessels and muscles
surrounding your brain have pain
receptors but your brain doesn't that's
why you don't get brain aches teeth are
considered part of your skeleton but
they don't count as bones nerve cells
transmit one thousand nerve impulses a
second they travel at 1 to 268 miles per
hour our DNA contains 100,000 viruses
scientists have discovered one that goes
back 100 million years if you type 60
words per minute for eight hours a day
it would take you 50 years to type the
human genome the biggest molecule in the
human body is the chromosome 1 a human
cell has 23 chromosome pairs and each
chromosome one is made of 10 billion
atoms you inhale 25 sextillion molecules
in just one breath as 25 followed by
2104 keeping score you have a leaf
shaped flap at the top of your larynx
which shuts every time you swallow to
prevent food getting into your lungs the
idea that the tongue has flavor zones is
a myth all tastebuds can detect five
tastes but some receptors are more
responsive than others the enamel of our
teeth is the hardest substance in the
human body 96% of it consists of
minerals humans get only two sets of
teeth across their whole lifetime but
crocodiles replace their teeth more than
forty five times your nose gets runny ER
when you have the flu because it
produces excess mucus to get rid of
microbes invading your body your sense
of smell is the only one that goes
directly to the part of the brain that
controls your emotions and memories
the bumps on your tongue aren't taste
buds they're mushroom shaped bulbs each
of them has up to five taste buds with
100 taste receptor cells each your
pancreas contains taste receptor cells
that allow it to detect not only sugar
but artificial sweeteners too it uses
the taste data to balance out hormones
the most abundant element in the human
body is oxygen as 65% but it also
contains lithium cobalt gold and uranium
the rarest one of all is radium to give
you that glow I assume you swallow 600
times a day
once every minute when you're awake and
around 3 times per hour while sleeping
human beings are the only animals that
willingly delay sleep so put your phone
away the average person has 10,000 taste
buds but as they get older some taste
cells are not replaced an older person
may have just 5000 working buds you have
5,000,000 hair follicles on your body
and only 100,000 of them are on your
head hair grows half an inch every month
so a 70 year old person that never got a
haircut would have hair as long as a
telephone pole your eyes get their color
from a pigment called melanin brown-eyed
people have more melanin than those with
green eyes which reminds me people with
blue eyes have completely colorless eye
tissue they get their color the same way
water and the sky get their shades of
blue the average lifespan of one eyebrow
hair is 4 months the body of a 110-pound
person contains 40 tablespoons of salt
less than 1% of the population is born
with our hearts on the right side of the
chest instead of the left
you blink 15 to 20 times per minute and
your eyes have the fastest muscle group
in your entire body but when staring at
a computer screen your blink rate goes
down to five times a minute the blood in
your body travels four miles per hour
and it reaches your brain in just a few
seconds you have around 3 million sweat
glands in your body many of them are on
the soles of your feet and on your palms
forehead armpits and cheeks if you
walked 2 miles per hour you'd have to
walk for 20 hours straight to lose one
pound
if you walk 2 miles per hour non-stop it
would take you 518 days and eight hours
to circle the equator earwax isn't
actually wax it contains fat skin cells
sweat and dirt aren't you glad you asked
oh you didn't embryos develop
fingerprints at three months sunburn is
the result of radiation exposure when
your body's natural defense mechanism
gets overwhelmed trying to fight UV rays
a toxic reaction occurs that results in
sunburn you get red eyes and photos
because when the camera flash goes off
your pupils don't have enough time to
constrict a large burst of light reaches
your retina and it bounces back the
earliest known person to have had blue
eyes lived in the Stone Age 7,000 years
ago contrary to popular belief contact
lenses can't get lost behind your eye
your teeth begin to form before you're
born but don't come out until you're 6
to 12 months old left-handed people
usually prefer to chew on the left side
and right-handed people well duh they
chew on the other side even if your
fingerprints are damaged they'll go back
in the same unique pattern there's a
name for the growling sound my stomach
makes when I'm hungry it's called
borborygmi which i think is Latin for
hey dude can I get some food over here
vanes look blue because light has to go
through layers of skin and fat to reach
them your skin scatters a lot of the red
portion of white light before it
reflects the blood this leaves only the
blue light to bounce back to your eyes
a person who has amnesia is unable to
detect smells but phantosmia is when a
person smells an odor that isn't
actually there your fingernails grow
twice as fast as your toenails it would
take fifteen and a half months for your
toenails to grow one inch but only seven
months for your fingernails to get this
long the outer layer of your skin is
thicker on your feet than other parts of
your body the heart has its own
electrical system and can continue
beating even when it's disconnected from
the body we won't go into how that can
happen but trust me when breathing a
single lung only uses five percent of
the oxygen you've inhaled your right
kidney is probably smaller and sits
lower down than your left kidney to make
room for your lover
I mean liver a 150-pound person's body
is made up of seven octillion atoms how
many zeros anyone Bueller Bueller yep 27
it takes six to eight hours for food to
travel through your stomach and small
intestine that's because your body is
trying to absorb all its nutrients food
doesn't need gravity to get to your
stomach your muscles constrict and relax
to push it down kind of like a boa
constrictor
[Music]